Wikis are enabled by wiki software, 
otherwise known as wiki engines. A wiki engine,
being a form of a content management system, differs
from other web-based systems such as blog software,nt structure, allowing structure to emerge 
according to the needs of the users.[1] Wiki engin
es usually allow content to be written using a simplified
 markup language and sometimes edited with the help of a rich-text
  editor.[2] There are dozens of different wiki engines in use, both
   standalone and part of other software, such as bug tracking systems. Some wiki engines are
    free and open-source, whereas others are proprietary. Some permit control over different functions
     (levels of access); for example, editing rights may permit changing, adding, or removing material
     . Others may permit access without enforcing access control. Further rules may be imposed to organize content.
There are hundreds of thousands of wikis in use, both public and private, including wikis functioning as knowledge management
 resources, note-taking tools, community websites, and intranets. Ward Cunningham, the developer
  of the first wiki software, WikiWikiWeb, originally described wiki as "the simplest online database that could
   possibly work".[3] "Wiki" (pronounced [wiki][note 1]) is a Hawaiian word mean

   es communities of editors and contributors to write documents collaboratively. All that people require to contribute is a computer, Internet access, a web browser, and a basic understanding of a simple markup language (e.g. MediaWiki markup language). A single page in a wiki website is referred to as a "wiki page", while the entire collection of pages, which are usually well-interconnected by hyperlinks, is "the wiki". A wiki is essentially a database for creating, browsing, and searching through information. A wiki allows non-linear, evolving, complex, and networked text, while also allowing for editor argument, debate, and interaction regarding the content and formatting.[10] A defining characteristic of wiki technology is the ease with which pages can be created and updated. Generally, there is no review by a moderator or gatekeeper before modifications are accepted and thus lead to changes on the website. Many wikis are open to alteration by the general public without requiring registration of user accounts. Many edits can be made in real-time and appear almost instantly online, but this feature facilitates abuse of the system. Private wiki servers require user authentication to edit pages, and sometimes even to read them. Maged N. Kamel Boulos, Cito Maramba, and Steve Wheeler write that the open wikis produce a process of Social Darwinism. "... because of the openness and rapidity that wiki pages can be edited, the pages undergo an evolutionary selection process, not unlike that which nature subjects to living organisms. 'Unfit' sentences and sections are ruthlessly culled, edited and replaced if they are not considered 'fit', which hopefully results in the evolution of a higher quality and more relevant page."[11]

Editing
"Wikitext" redirects here. For the Wikipedia help page, see Help:Wikitext.
Source editing
Some wikis have an edit button or link directly on the page being viewed if the use
r has permission to edit the page. This can lead to a text-based editing page where participants can structure and format wiki pages with a simplified markup language, sometimes known as wikitext, wiki markup or wikicode (it can also lead to a WYSIWYG editing page; see the paragraph after the table below). For example, starting lines of text with asterisks could create a bulleted list. The style and syntax of wikitexts can vary greatly 
among wiki implementations,[example needed] some of which also allow HTML tags.
Layout consistency
Wikis have favored plain-text editing, with fewer and simpler conventions than HTML for indicating style and structure. Although limiting access to HTML and Cascading Style
 Sheets (CSS) of wikis limits user ability to alter the structure and formatting of wiki content, there are some benefits. Limited access to CSS promotes consistency in the look and
  feel, and having JavaScript disabled prevents a user from implementing code that may limit other users' access.